Last week, I said that I am still young enough that if I wanted to, I could climb Mount Everest.
Obviously not tomorrow - I have nothing like the skills or the fitness, and anyway I've got a drinks do in the evening.
I mean, I could probably push it back a bit, but I gather climbing Mount Everest is generally an all-day-thing.
But my point was that if I had a certain sort of mid-life crisis, I reckon I could still acquire the skills, do the training, and climb Mount Everest.
After all, anyone seems to be able to climb it these days: Brian Blessed, people in wheelchairs, nuns, toddlers.
I can only put the fact that Everest was not climbed until 1953 down to rightful indifference.
I mean, I can't see the point of it. It's shrouded in cloud.
So I suppose that's why people are interested to climb it: 'There's the tallest thing in the world, I wonder if I can get to the top and not die?
And I bet there's a hell of a view. Of the other side of the cloud that's obscuring the summit.
It's a natural human impulse, though not one I share.
What I cannot understand is why people run marathons.
Why is the difficult but unnecessary act of jogging 26 and a bit miles accorded special reverence?
Why, if you wanted for whatever personal reasons to prove to yourself you can do something so difficult
would you choose to do it in the midst of tens of thousands of others doing exactly the same thing,
and thus graphically demonstrating how unremarkable your nonetheless exhausting feat is?
And what is the connection between you deciding you want to get fit in this particular way, and me giving money to charity?
Let me make it clear that getting fit is basically a good thing, I suppose, and giving money to charity certainly is.
I just don't see the connection. If you are raising the money in order to be allowed to run the marathon
- because I believe with the London marathon at least you have to show that a certain amount has been raised to be able to take part
- then why are you asking me to indirectly pay for your new fitness regime?
If, on the other hand, you're running the marathon to raise money for charity, isn't this a terribly inefficient way of doing it?
How many runners can honestly say that they've raised more in sponsorship than they would
if they'd spent all the hours of training and running doing extra work at a temp agency? Or hooking?
And you could boost that by getting your friends to sponsor it: they could pay extra for every letter you correctly file or businessman you fellate.
I'm sorry, that's disgusting. I mean, businessperson you fellate or go down on.
Then there'd be earned money on top of given money: sponsorship for a marathon isn't really earned
because running 26 miles, difficult though it is, is not a service than any of your sponsors actually require.
The only person who requires that activity to happen is the runner
who has arbitrarily picked it as a physical challenge in order to reboot their life.
So, while in the short term it looks like exhaustion and pain in aid of a cause,
what it actually is is a sense of achievement and a valuable life-experience for which your friends are expected to both pay and congratulate you.
Of course in fact, most people run marathons not because they're selfish, but because they feel the need to 'do something'.
To honour the memory of someone they've lost,
to raise money to try to stop whatever happened to them ever happening to anyone else,
or just to respond to a an unjust world.
And there's nothing cathartic about moonlighting as a temp, let alone turning tricks.
So a marathon is a devotional thing, basically - a penance.
A secular ritual we've established, but unsubstantiated by anyone having cooked up a religion around it.
But if it helps, then, I suppose, fair enough.
On the other hand, those chancers who want sponsorship to walk the Great Wall of China or go cycling in Vietnam can get lost.
You don't get sponsored to go on holiday.